#Software Design Verison 2.0

## Team Game Time
 
The application we are going to build is an android application.  Android applications are built primarily using Java and XML.  These languages will be used in Eclipse, which is the platform that is being used for the Android development.  The goal of this project is to get at least a thread from the UI to connect to the preexisting M2Catalyst software development kit (SDK).  Our sponsors have just recently given us the SDK. It is our job to figure out exactly what the SDK does and how we will use this information to extract various data from it.  We will use the information from the SDK to create a specific application that will focus on gaming.  To do this, we may need additional resources such as a dependent server, and a database through which we can track user specific data.  In the future we would like to add additional functionality to the application, which would allow users to connect to and utilize their Facebook contacts, and status feeds.  However, for this quarter we will focus only on the key features of the M2Game Time application.

A standard android application is built upon a linux kernel, utilizing a dozen or so libraries (e.g. Surface Manager, SQLite, OpenGL, WebKit) which are essential to providing android applications with everything they need to run.  Some of the libraries which are integral to our project are the Standard C Library, Media Libraries, Surface Libraries and FreeType.  These libraries will help control most aspects of the application, from graphics and font to basic functionalities.  The frameworks we will be using in this will be standard Android framework, which will include : activity manager, window manager, content providers, view system, package manager, etc. The framework is a full set of services built in java to control things such as views & windows (basic display elements), resources such as images, content managers to help control and access databases, etc. 

To build our android application, we will be using Eclipse with Java IDE and the android device emulator (in conjunction to actual android devices).  Additionally, we will be using the ADT plugin for android tools (comes bundled with the eclipse IDE for Java).  The majority of this project will be done using tasks, which are stacks of activities coded in Java.  This project will not only require us to build a UI for the application (which is what we will do using the activities), but also a database to store user profile information (as opposed to anonymous data gathering like in M2Monitor).  However, the database that we will use has not yet been determined.  Project clients will have the final say in which database will be used.   Within the database we will be able to store information on game usage such as names, dates, locations, all of which is collected through the M2Catalyst SDK.  M2Catalyst’s existing android application collects anonymous data; so having a database, which can assign data usage to specific users, is an integral part of Game Time.  It will allow for users to view their usage and the usage of friends if allowed.   Various other features will also be included in the M2Game Time application, but before we create the database, it is important that we hash out the final design aspect that will fully satisfy our sponsors.

The database will be utilizing a Model-View-Controller architecture, as that is what a majority of android applications follow.  Android development is heavily geared to utilize the MVC architecture.   An example of a model in this architecture might be an “object” (such as a user), and therefore the USER object would be able to store: username, age, list of games, list of friends (other user objects), etc.  Another object might be the GAME object, which might store: title, developer, published, etc.   The controllers for this architecture might be the things that a user can manipulate, so for instance: data.   Downloading and playing games is an action that triggers the usage of data.  The purpose of using a Model-View-Controller is that it will make all of our lives easier.  By separating all the views from the model and controller, the code will be easy to read as all things will be as simple as possible.   The idea is that the model is the logic, the view is the data, and the controller updates the model. It accepts the user input and translates user input.  By doing it this way, it will keep our code manageable and this will be important as our group continues to share and build our code one line at a time. 
